flutter: improve automatic instrumentation page (#8709)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/dart/integrations/file.mdx

  - /platforms/dart/configuration/integrations/file/
---

File I/O operations are fundamental for reading from and writing to files within an application.
The `sentry_file` integration provides [File](https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.18.5/dart-io/File-class.html) support for Sentry thus providing insight into performance monitoring of file operations.

> ## Behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Behavior
```

- The created spans will be attached to the transaction on the scope - if no transaction is on the scope the File I/O span will not be sent to Sentry.
- The File I/O integration is only available for the `dart:io:File` class, not for the `dart:html:File` class.
- The SDK sets the span `operation` to `file.copy`, `file.write`, `file.delete`, `file.open`, `file.read` or `file.rename`, and `description` to `filename` (for example, `file.txt`).
- The span finishes once the operation has been executed. The span `status` is then set to `SpanStatus.ok` if successful, or `SpanStatus.internalError` if there was an error.
- When the operation throws an `Exception`, Sentry's SDK associates it with the running span.

## Prerequisite

> 1. Sentry [Dart](/platforms/dart/#configure) SDK must be initialized.
> 2. Performance Monitoring must be set up. Learn more [here](/platforms/dart/performance/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Sentry [Dart](/platforms/dart/#configure) SDK is initialized.
2. Performance Monitoring is set up. Learn more [here](/platforms/dart/performance/).
```

  sentry_file: ^{{@inject packages.version('sentry.dart.file', '6.18.0') }}
```

## Configure

Call the Sentry extension method to wrap the file:

```dart
final sentryFile = file.sentryTrace();
```

## Verify

> ### 1. Execute the code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Execute the Code
```

}
```

> ### 2. View the recorded transaction on Sentry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. View the Recorded Transaction on Sentry.io
```
